---
layout: post
title: "the setup"
date: 2016-03-13 20:35:00 -0300
categories:
---

Hi! I just created my github.io page and I want to explain, step by step, how I set this thing up. Notice that I will not post screenshots, but will try to be as clear as possible. I might skip a few basic stuff you can find on *Jekyll* or *github*'s pages.

First things first, I needed to create a repository called `marcosalles.github.io`. I went ahead and, already planning to use *Jekyll*, selected the `.gitignore` file for Jekyll from the dropdown menu. I then cloned the project on my computer and entered its home directory.
{% highlight shell %}
hub clone marcosalles/marcosalles.github.io
cd marcosalles.github.io
{% endhighlight %}

The next step was to install *[Jekyll][jekyll-install]* and setup a new project on my repository folder. Bear in mind you need to have *ruby* and *rubygems* already installed on your machine.

{% highlight shell %}
gem install jekyll
jekyll new --force .
{% endhighlight %}

I needed to use `--force` because my repository already had the *README.md* and *.gitignore* files created by github, and Jekyll only allows you to create a new project on an empty directory.

At this point I had everything I needed to deploy, but I wanted to change the website's title and tweak the links a little bit, so I opened a file called *_config.yml* and changed everything I wanted. I also added a `facebook_username` property. By default, *Jekyll* links to your github and twitter pages, and I wanted to add a facebook link.

I then ran the command `jekyll s -w`, which launches a server at [localhost:4000][localhost] with a watch flag for the source files, so I didn't have to restart the server at every page modification. I wanted to remove the blog posts from the homepage, so I opened the file `index.html` and moved the content about the posts to another file (`blog.html`), taking care to set the `permalink` property as `/blog/`. I then noticed the new page *blog* had already showed up on the links list on the top-right corner, and clicking it took me to the mock blog page. **Awesome!**

The next step was to remove the about page and turn it into my homepage, which was rather easy. I basically renamed the `about.md` file to `index.md`, changed the `layout` property to `default` and the `permalink` to `/`, then removed the `index.html` file. Wrote whatever text I wanted, title and done!

At that point I was satisfied enough and pushed the updated content. Whenever you push to github, your personal page is updated immediately, so be smart not to push something broken.

{% highlight shell %}
git commit -a -m "some commit message here"
git push
{% endhighlight %}

That's about it! Another few things I did here:
- create a `svg` file with a gray Facebook logo much like the default github and twitter ones, and add a footer linking to my page
- use the same icons to create sharing links for each post's page
- update the rss feed file to correctly feed the blog posts

If you have any questions, feel free to ping me!

[jekyll-install]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/
[localhost]: http://localhost:4000
